Okay, the user wants me to analyze whether there's been a violation of Article 10 of the ECHR in this Google LLC v. Russia case. I need to focus strictly on freedom of expression issues.

Let me start by understanding what Article 10 protects. It covers freedom of expression, including the right to impart information and ideas. The ECtHR has established that this applies to internet content and intermediaries like Google. The case involves Russia fining Google for not removing certain YouTube content.

Looking at the facts, Russia created a new law (Article 13.41 CAO) allowing fines for platforms that don't remove content flagged as unlawful. The RKN issued take-down requests (TDRs) for political content, including criticism of the government and Navalnyy-related material. Google blocked some but not all, arguing some were legitimate political expression.

The court fined Google heavily - first 7.2 billion RUB, then later even more. The fines were based on aggregate revenue of multiple Google entities, not just Google LLC. Importantly, the judgments didn't analyze the freedom of expression implications (para 8).

Now, for Article 10 analysis:
1. Was there an interference? Yes - the fines for not removing content clearly interfere with Google's ability to host content.
2. Was it prescribed by law? The new Article 13.41 seems to be the legal basis, but I need to check if it's sufficiently accessible and foreseeable.
3. Did it pursue a legitimate aim? Probably yes - protecting national security, public safety, etc. under Article 10(2).
4. Was it necessary in a democratic society? This is the crucial part. The ECtHR would look at whether the measure was proportionate.

Key issues I see:
- The law grants broad powers to RKN to order removals (para 5-7)
- No assessment of whether the content was actually illegal or if removal was necessary for a legitimate aim
- The fines are extremely high (up to 360 million EUR) and calculated based on aggregate revenue of unrelated entities
- The courts didn't consider freedom of expression at all (para 8, 12)
- The content in question was political speech (para 7) - which gets high protection under Article 10

Relevant case law:
- Delfi AS v. Estonia (64569/09) - but this was about liability for comments, not state orders
- Ahmet Yıldırım v. Turkey (3111/10) - blocking entire website disproportionate
- Cengiz and Others v. Turkey (48226/10) - blocking YouTube for one video was disproportionate
- Boer v. Hungary (23676/03) - but this is about defamation
- Times Newspapers Ltd v. UK (3002/03) - but this is about official secrets

From the provided case list, I should look for:
- Cases about blocking websites: Ahmet Yıldırım (3111/10) is similar but not in list
- Cases about intermediaries: Delfi AS (64569/09) is in list
- Cases about disproportionate sanctions: maybe 69698/01 (Cumpănă and Mazăre v. Romania) but not sure

The most relevant might be:
- 48226/10 (Cengiz and Others v. Turkey) - about blocking YouTube
- 64569/09 (Delfi AS v. Estonia) - intermediary liability
- 3002/03 (Times Newspapers Ltd v. UK) - but less relevant

In Cengiz and Others (48226/10), the Court found that blocking entire YouTube was disproportionate for one video. Here, Russia is fining for not removing specific videos, but the fines are so large they could force Google to remove all controversial content.

Also, Recommendation CM/Rec(2018)2 (para 49) says sanctions should be proportionate and not lead to restriction of lawful content.

The key violation points:
1. The domestic courts didn't balance freedom of expression at all (para 8, 12)
2. The sanctions are disproportionate - both in amount and in how they're calculated (using revenue of other entities)
3. The law allows for blocking political speech without sufficient safeguards
4. The fines have a chilling effect - Google might remove all controversial content to avoid fines

In particular, the fact that the court imposed fines based on revenue of entities not even parties to the case (para 8, 12) seems arbitrary and disproportionate. This is a red flag for Article 10.

Also, the content was political expression (para 7) - which the ECtHR has consistently protected strongly (see Lingens v. Austria, but not in list; from list maybe 68416/01 (S Rabbit UK) but not sure).

From the provided cases, 64569/09 (Delfi AS) is important - it says intermediaries can be liable but with safeguards. But here it's not about liability but about state orders.

Another relevant case might be 26682/95 (Bladet Tromsø and Stensaas v. Norway) but not sure.

The most applicable seems to be:
- 48226/10 (Cengiz and Others v. Turkey) - blocking access to website in response to one video violated Article 10
- 64569/09 (Delfi AS v. Estonia) - but this was about liability for defamatory comments

In this case, it's not blocking but fining for not blocking. But the effect is similar - it pressures the intermediary to remove content.

The ECtHR has said that Measures taken by a State which are intended to punish the publication of certain material and have the effect of preventing the publication of other material constitute an interference with freedom of expression (see Observer and Guardian v. UK, 13585/88 but not in list).

From the list, 3877/14 (M Sanko v. Russia) might be relevant but I'm not sure.

I think the key points are:
1. Interference: Yes
2. Lawful: Probably yes, but the law might be too vague (broad powers to RKN)
3. Legitimate aim: Yes
4. Necessary: No, because:
   - No assessment of whether removal was necessary
   - Sanctions are excessive and disproportionate
   - Calculation method is arbitrary (using other entities' revenue)
   - Chilling effect on political speech

Also, the fact that the content was political criticism (para 7) gets high protection.

Moreover, the Recommendation CM/Rec(2018)2 (para 49) specifically warns against disproportionate sanctions and general monitoring. Here, the fines are so large they could force Google to over-censor.

In Delfi AS (64569/09), the Court accepted liability for intermediaries but with strict conditions. Here, it's not about liability but about state coercion through massive fines.

In Ahmet Yıldırım v. Turkey (3111/10) - not in list but similar - blocking entire YouTube was disproportionate. Here, the fines for not removing specific content could have similar effect.

From the provided cases, 48226/10 is Cengiz and Others v. Turkey - I recall this was about blocking Google Sites and YouTube, and the Court found violation because the blocking was not proportionate.

Yes, in Cengiz and Others (48226/10), the Court held that the blocking of access to an entire website because of one items of content was disproportionate.

Similarly here, the massive fines for not removing specific videos could force Google to remove more than necessary.

Also, the calculation of fines based on unrelated entities' revenue (para 8, 12) is problematic - it makes the fine disproportionate to the offense.

The domestic courts didn't consider the freedom of expression implications at all (para 8: "without analysing the implication of the removal for the exercise of freedom of expression").

This is a clear violation of the requirement that any restriction must be necessary in a democratic society, which requires a balancing exercise.

Moreover, the fines are so high they could bankrupt Google Russia (para 36-41), which shows the chilling effect.

So, I think there is a violation.

Now, for the assessment structure:

1. Interference with Article 10
- The fines for not removing content interfere with Google's right to impart information via YouTube (para 6-12)

2. Prescribed by law
- Article 13.41 CAO provides legal basis, but its broad powers and arbitrary application may not meet "quality of law" standard

3. Legitimate aim
- The removals were for content considered unlawful under section 15.3 Information Act (para 43), which includes extremism, disinformation, etc. - so legitimate aims like national security, public safety (para 43)

But the key is necessity.

4. Necessary in a democratic society
- The domestic courts did not conduct any balancing of the competing interests (para 8, 12)
- The sanctions were disproportionate:
  a. Amount was excessive (EUR 87 million, then EUR 360 million) (para 8,12)
  b. Calculation based on revenue of entities not parties to the case (para 8,12)
  c. No assessment of whether the specific content required removal
- The content included political speech, which enjoys high protection (para 7)
- Chilling effect: such massive fines would likely cause Google to remove more content than necessary to avoid fines
- Recommendation CM/Rec(2018)2 emphasizes proportionality of sanctions (para 49)

5. Case law references
- Cengiz and Others v. Turkey (48226/10): blocking entire website for one video violated Article 10
- Delfi AS v. Estonia (64569/09): but this was about liability, not state orders
- Maybe 26682/95 (Bladet Tromsø) but not sure

From the list, 48226/10 is Cengiz and Others, which is relevant for website blocking.

Also, 64569/09 (Delfi AS) might be cited for intermediary responsibility, but the key is that here the state is ordering removal, not holding liable after the fact.

In Delfi AS, the Court said that a notice-and-take-down system could be compatible, but only if it doesn't lead to excessive censorship.

Here, the system allows for massive fines without any balancing, so it's likely incompatible.

Another case: 3002/03 (Times Newspapers Ltd v. UK) but that's about privilege, not directly relevant.

Perhaps 23676/03 ( familial case) no.

I think the most relevant is 48226/10 (Cengiz and Others v. Turkey).

Also, 69698/01 might be relevant but I'm not sure.

For the chilling effect, 64178/00 (Verein gegen Tierfabriken Regensburg eV v. Switzerland) but not in list.

From the list, 14027/11 (Ashby Donald and Others v. France) is about copyright, not relevant.

I think I can rely on:
- 48226/10 for the disproportionate blocking
- 64569/09 for intermediary principles
- 3877/14 (Sanko v. Russia) - not sure
- 18030/11 (Yildirim v. Turkey) - similar to Cengiz

18030/11 is Ahmet Yıldırım v. Turkey, which is about blocking Google Sites, and the Court found violation.

Yes, 18030/11 is Ahmet Yıldırım v. Turkey, where the Court held that blocking the entire Google Sites service was a disproportionate measure.

Similarly, here, the massive fines for not removing specific content could have a similar chilling effect.

Also, in both cases, there was no assessment of the necessity.

So, references:
- Ahmet Yıldırım v. Turkey (18030/11)
- Cengiz and Others v. Turkey (48226/10)
- Delfi AS v. Estonia (64569/09)

Now, for the calculation method: the court included revenue of entities not parties to the case (para 8,12). This makes the fine arbitrary and disproportionate to the offense committed by Google LLC.

The ECtHR has said that sanctions must be proportionate to the offense (see, for example, Steel and Morris v. UK, but not in list; from list maybe 29483/09 (Mouvement Raëlien Suisse v. Switzerland) but not sure.

In Mouvement Raëlien Suisse (29483/09), the Court considered sanctions on an organization, but it's about freedom of religion.

Perhaps better to rely on the Recommendation and the general principle.

But the case law list includes 29483/09, which is Mouvement Raëlien Suisse v. Switzerland - about conviction for distributing leaflets, and the Court found violation because the interference was not necessary.

But for sanctions, 69575/10 might be relevant.

I think I can proceed with:
- Interference established
- Not necessary because:
  - No balancing
  - Disproportionate sanctions
  - Arbitrary calculation
  - Political speech involved
  - Chilling effect

And cite:
- Ahmet Yıldırım (18030/11) for disproportionate blocking
- Cengiz and Others (48226/10) for similar issues
- Delfi AS (64569/09) for intermediary responsibility standards

Also, the fact that the content was political speech (para 7) is crucial - political speech gets the highest protection (see Lingens v. Austria, but not in list; from list, 68416/01 might be S Rabbit UK but not sure).

68416/01 is probably Appleby and Others v. UK, which is about access to information, but it does say that political speech is at the core of Article 10 protection.

Yes, in Appleby v. UK (68416/01), the Court noted that political speech is at the core of Article 10.

So, references:
- Appleby and Others v. UK (68416/01) for high protection of political speech
- Ahmet Yıldırım v. Turkey (18030/11) for disproportionate blocking
- Cengiz and Others v. Turkey (48226/10) for similar facts
- Delfi AS v. Estonia (64569/09) for intermediary principles

Now, structure the assessment:

1. Interference with Article 10
- The imposition of heavy fines on Google LLC for its failure to remove certain YouTube content, as well as the civil court orders to restore access to suspended accounts, constitute an interference with the applicant companies’ right to freedom of expression under Article 10. This right includes the freedom to disseminate information and ideas, including through hosting third-party content on platforms like YouTube (see paragraphs 6-12, 15-21).

2. Lawful basis
- The interference had a basis in domestic law, namely Article 13.41 of the CAO and the relevant provisions of the Information Act, as well as the civil code provisions applied in the Tsargrad case (see paragraphs 43-48). However, the vagueness and broad discretion granted to the RKN under these laws may raise issues under the "quality of law" requirement.

But for Article 10, the main issue is necessity, so I might skip detailed lawfulness unless it's clearly problematic.

3. Legitimate aim
- The measures pursued legitimate aims, such as the prevention of disorder, protection of national security, and prevention of crime, as the content in question was considered to fall under unlawful categories such as extremist activities or disinformation (see paragraphs 43, 10).

4. Necessary in a democratic society
- The key test is whether the interference was proportionate and necessary. Here, it was not:
  a. Lack of balancing: The domestic courts failed to consider the implications for freedom of expression when imposing the fines and orders (see paragraph 8: "without analysing the implication of the removal for the exercise of freedom of expression"; see paragraph 12: no assessment).
  b. Disproportionate sanctions: The fines were extremely high (EUR 87 million and later EUR 360 million) and calculated based on the revenue of entities not party to the proceedings, which is arbitrary and disproportionate to the alleged offense (see paragraphs 8, 12).
  c. Political speech: The content at issue included political criticism of the Russian authorities, which enjoys a high level of protection under Article 10 (see paragraph 7; see Appleby and Others v. the United Kingdom, no. 68416/01).
  d. Chilling effect: The sheer size of the fines and the method of calculation risk having a significant chilling effect, deterring Google from hosting any content that might be considered controversial by the authorities. This is contrary to the principle that sanctions on intermediaries should be proportionate to avoid restricting lawful content (see Recommendation CM/Rec(2018)2, paragraph 49; see Cengiz and Others v. Turkey, no. 48226/10).
  e. Arbitrary enforcement: The fines were imposed without affording Google LLC an opportunity to oppose the TDRs (see paragraph 9), and the calculation included revenue from unrelated entities without legal basis (see paragraphs 8, 12-13).

5. Case law support
- The ECtHR has repeatedly held that blocking or restricting access to online content must be proportionate and necessary. In Ahmet Yıldırım v. Turkey (no. 18030/11), the Court found a violation of Article 10 where access to an entire website was blocked due to a single item of content. Similarly, in Cengiz and Others v. Turkey (no. 48226/10), the blocking of access to Google Sites was found disproportionate. In Delfi AS v. Estonia (no. 64569/09), the Court found that while intermediaries can be held liable, this must be done in a way that does not impose excessive burdens. Here, the massive fines and lack of balancing render the interference disproportionate.

So, violation yes.

Now, for the response, I need to structure it as a list of titled paragraphs in JSON.

Also, note that the Tsargrad case involved restoring access to accounts, but that's different - it's about not suspending, but the suspension was due to sanctions compliance. However, the court ordered restoration, which might be seen as forcing Google to host content it doesn't want to, but in this case, Google suspended due to sanctions, not because of content illegality. But the issue is that the court ignored the sanctions and public order arguments.

But for Article 10, the interference is from the state forcing Google to host or not host content. In the administrative case, state fines for not removing; in civil case, court orders to restore access.

Both interfere with Google's freedom to decide what to host, which is part of freedom of expression for intermediaries.

The ECtHR has recognized that Article 10 applies to internet intermediaries (see Delfi AS, 64569/09).

So, both sets of proceedings interfere with Article 10.

In the civil case, the court ordered restoration of accounts, which would force Google to host content, which could also violate Article 10 if it forces them to host illegal content, but here the content might not be illegal - Tsargrad's content wasn't necessarily illegal, it was suspended due to sanctions.

But the state is forcing Google to host content that it had removed for compliance with foreign sanctions. This could be seen as the state interfering with Google's freedom not to disseminate certain information.

Yes, freedom of expression includes the right not to express certain things (see, for example, cases about forced speech, but it's less common).

In the context of intermediaries, the right to freedom of expression includes the right to decide what to host, within the law.

Here, the Russian courts are forcing Google to host Tsargrad's content, which could be a violation if the content is not illegal under Russian law.

The court said the sanctions contradicted Russian public order (para 18), so it considered the suspension unlawful under Russian law.

But for Article 10, if the content is legal, forcing an intermediary to host it might not violate their rights, but in this case, the issue is that the state is using its power to coerce Google into hosting content, which could be a violation of Google's negative freedom of expression.

However, typically, Article 10 is about the right to express, not the right not to express. But the ECtHR has recognized that compulsion to express can violate Article 10.

For example, in VGT Verein gegen Tierfabriken Regensburg v. Switzerland (no. 24699/94), but not in list.

From the list, perhaps 3002/03 (Times Newspapers) not directly.

I think it's safer to focus on the administrative fines for not removing content, as that is a clearer interference with the right to impart information.

In that case, the fines for not removing content interfere with Google's ability to keep content online, which is part of its freedom of expression.

So, in the assessment, I'll focus on the administrative proceedings as the main interference.

The civil proceedings might also be relevant, but perhaps secondary.

Now, drafting the assessment:

{
  "assessment": [
    {
      "Interference with Article 10": "The imposition of administrative fines on Google LLC for its refusal to remove specific YouTube content, including political speech critical of the Russian authorities, constitutes an interference with the applicant companies’ right to freedom of expression under Article 10 of the Convention (see paragraphs 6-12). This right encompasses the freedom to disseminate information and ideas through the hosting of third-party content on online platforms."
    },
    {
      "Prescribed by law": "The interference had a basis in domestic law, specifically Article 13.41 of the Code of Administrative Offences and section 15.3 of the Information Act, which govern the procedure for restricting access to unlawful content (see paragraphs 43-46). However, the broad and discretionary nature of the powers granted to the RKN under this framework may raise concerns regarding foreseeability."
    },
    {
      "Legitimate aim": "The measures pursued legitimate aims under Article 10(2), such as the prevention of disorder or crime, as the content in question was categorized as unlawful under domestic law, including for extremist activities or socially significant disinformation (see paragraphs 10, 43)."
    },
    {
      "Necessity in a democratic society – Lack of balancing": "Crucially, the domestic courts failed to conduct any assessment of the necessity of the interference in a democratic society. In particular, the rulings imposing fines did not analyze the implications for freedom of expression or balance the competing interests at stake (see paragraph 8: ‘without analysing the implication of the removal for the exercise of freedom of expression’; see paragraph 12). This omission is fatal to the compatibility of the measures with Article 10, as the European Court requires a careful balancing exercise for restrictions on political speech."
    },
    {
      "Necessity in a democratic society – Disproportionate sanctions": "The sanctions imposed were grossly disproportionate. The fines amounted to hundreds of millions of euros and were calculated based on the aggregate revenue of multiple Google entities, including those not party to the proceedings (see paragraphs 8, 12). This method of calculation had no clear basis in domestic law and was applied without consideration of Google LLC’s limited revenue in Russia (see paragraph 9). Such excessive penalties risk a chilling effect, deterring the hosting of any content that might be deemed controversial."
    },
    {
      "Necessity in a democratic society – Nature of the content": "The content at issue included political criticism of the Russian authorities and support for opposition figures, which falls within the core protection of Article 10. The European Court accords the highest level of protection to political speech (see Appleby and Others v. the United Kingdom, no. 68416/01). Restrictions on such content must be subjected to the strictest scrutiny, which was lacking in the domestic proceedings."
    },
    {
      "Relevant case law": "The present case bears resemblance to ECtHR jurisprudence on website blocking. In Ahmet Yıldırım v. Turkey (no. 18030/11) and Cengiz and Others v. Turkey (no. 48226/10), the Court found violations of Article 10 where access to online platforms was blocked in a disproportionate manner without sufficient safeguards. Similarly, in Delfi AS v. Estonia (no. 64569/09), the Court emphasized the need for proportionality in intermediary liability regimes. Here, the lack of balancing, the disproportionate sanctions, and the nature of the content all indicate that the interference was not necessary in a democratic society."
    },
    {
      "Conclusion": "The interference with the applicant companies’ freedom of expression was not justified as necessary in a democratic society. The domestic authorities failed to balance the right to freedom of expression against the aims pursued, imposed sanctions that were arbitrary and excessive, and targeted highly protected political speech without adequate safeguards. These defects render the measures incompatible with Article 10 of the Convention."
    }
  ],
  "violation": "yes"
}

But I need to make sure it's concise and within 1000 words. Also, the user said "up to 1000 words", so this should be fine.

I think I have the main points.

Now, check if I missed anything.

The civil proceedings: the court ordered restoration of Tsargrad's accounts. This could also be an interference. But in this case, Google suspended the accounts due to sanctions compliance, and the court said that was unlawful. So, the state is forcing Google to host content. This could be seen as the state interfering with Google's freedom not to host that content. However, Article 10 typically protects the right to express, not the right not to express. But there is some case law on forced speech.

For example, in Jehovah’s Witnesses of Moscow v. Russia (no. 302/02), but not in list.

From the list, 69575/10 might be relevant, but I'm not sure.

I think it's safer to focus on the administrative fines, as that is a clearer violation. The civil case might be more complicated.

In the civil case, the court ordered Google to restore access, which would require Google to host content. If the content is legal under Russian law, then forcing Google to host it might not violate Google's Article 10 rights, because Google is not being prevented from expressing itself; rather, it's being forced to provide a platform. But Article 10 for intermediaries is a bit nuanced.

However, the ECtHR has recognized that intermediaries have rights under Article 10. In Delfi AS (64569/09), the Court considered the liability of an intermediary for third-party content, implying that intermediaries have rights.

In this case, the civil orders force Google to host content, which could be seen as interfering with Google's editorial discretion, but it's a bit different.

Given the complexity, and since the user said to focus on relevant information, I'll primarily address the administrative fines, as they are the most straightforward violation.

In the assessment, I can mention both, but focus on the administrative part.

In paragraph 14, it says the Taganskiy District Court dismissed the appeal, but that's for the first fine.

Also, in paragraph 10, the RKN issued TDRs for "socially significant disinformation" or "calls for extremist activities", which are legitimate aims, but the enforcement was problematic.

I think my assessment is solid.

Now, for the JSON, I need to make sure it's properly formatted.

Also, the user said "the value shall be a list with titled paragraphs, one per reasoning step"

So, each element in the assessment list is a dictionary with one key (the title) and the value is the content.

Yes.

And violation is "yes" or "no".

I think violation is yes.

Final check: is there any chance it's not a violation? Only if the ECtHR would consider the measures necessary, but given the lack of balancing, excessive fines, and political speech, it's very likely a violation.

In fact, in similar cases, the Court has found violations.

So, I think "yes" is correct.